# DOCA Platform Framework

## Observability Guide

<!-- toc -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Purpose of kube-state-metrics](#purpose-of-kube-state-metrics)
- [Enabling Observability Components](#enabling-observability-components)
  - [Included Grafana Dashboards](#included-grafana-dashboards)
- [Setting the Grafana Admin Password](#setting-the-grafana-admin-password)
- [Note on Storage Solution](#note-on-storage-solution)
<!-- /toc -->
 
### Introduction

This guide covers the steps to enable observability components such as
[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/),
and
[kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics)
for the operator. By default, these components are disabled in the Helm
chart and need to be enabled explicitly.

If you haven't installed the dpf-operator yet, please refer to
[installation_guide.rst](installation_guide.rst) first.

#### Purpose of kube-state-metrics

`kube-state-metrics` is a service that listens to the
Kubernetes API server and generates metrics about the state of the
objects (such as deployments, nodes, pods, etc.) managed by Kubernetes.
In the context of our operator, we deploy
`kube-state-metrics` to expose detailed [metrics for the
custom resource definitions
(CRDs)](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/main/docs/metrics/extend/customresourcestate-metrics.md)
managed by the operator.

### Enabling Observability Components

To enable Prometheus, Grafana, and Kube-State-Metrics, you can modify
the `values.yaml` file as shown below:

``` yaml
prometheus:
  enabled: true
grafana:
  enabled: true
kube-state-metrics:
  enabled: true
```

Alternatively, if you have deployed your operator already you can enable
these components using Helm command-line options. This can be helpful
for testing the monitoring stack. Please don't use this in production.

``` bash
helm -n dpf-operator-system \
  upgrade dpf-operator oci://nvcr.io/nvstaging/doca/dpf-operator \
  --version=v0.1.0-latest \
  --values <(helm -n dpf-operator-system get values dpf-operator) \
  --set grafana.enabled=true \
  --set prometheus.enabled=true \
  --set kube-state-metrics.enabled=true
```

#### Included Grafana Dashboards

We have preconfigured three Grafana dashboards to provide monitoring and
insights into the operator and its controllers:

1. **DOCA Platform Framework State**: This dashboard provides a
high-level overview of the operator and its controllers, highlighting
key metrics such as resource status, condition states, and time to
readiness.
2. **Controller Runtime Dashboard**: This dashboard provides detailed
metrics and visualizations for the controllers, including information on
reconciliation times, queue depths, and error rates.
3. **Kubernetes API Server Requests Dashboard**: This dashboard
monitors the requests made to the Kubernetes API server, helping you to
identify any performance bottlenecks or excessive API usage.

These dashboards are automatically deployed when Grafana is enabled.
Once enabled, you can access them through the Grafana web UI under the
"Dashboards" section.

### Setting the Grafana Admin Password

You can set the Grafana admin password manually by configuring the
`grafana.adminPassword` value in the `values.yaml` file:

``` yaml
grafana:
  adminPassword: <your-password>
```

Alternatively, if you prefer Grafana to generate a custom password,
leave `grafana.adminPassword` unset. After deployment, you can retrieve
the autogenerated password using the following command:

``` bash
kubectl -n dpf-operator-system get secret dpf-operator-grafana -ojsonpath='{.data.admin-password}' | base64 -d
```

This command fetches the password from the Kubernetes secret created for
Grafana.

### Note on Storage Solution

By default, both Grafana and Prometheus use `hostPath` for storage. This
is not recommended for production environments due to the potential for
data loss and lack of scalability. You should configure a more reliable
storage solution.

To change the storage solution, you need to modify the respective
storage configurations in the `values.yaml` file:

``` yaml
prometheus:
  server:
    persistentVolume:
      enabled: true
      storageClass: <your-storage-class>
grafana:
  persistence:
    enabled: true
    storageClassName: <your-storage-class>
```

Make sure to replace `<your-storage-class>` with the appropriate storage
class for your environment.
